Skip to main navigationSkip to main content
Club Sites
AFC Bournemouth
Arsenal
Brighton & Hove Albion
Burnley
Chelsea
Crystal Palace
Everton
Huddersfield Town
Leicester City
Liverpool
Manchester City
Manchester United
Newcastle United
Southampton
Stoke City
Swansea
Spurs
Watford
West Brom
West Ham
 Premier League Logo
Premier League
Fantasy
Stats
Video
Communities
More
Sign in
Search

Search Premier League
Search Premier League送信
Submit search
Home
Fixtures
Results
Tables
Transfers
Broadcast
Tickets
Clubs
Players
Managers
News
Social
More
Talking Tactics
Lack of continuity checking Chelsea's progress
Adrian Clarke 08/10/2017
Share
Antonio Conte, Chelsea
Adrian Clarke explains why the champions have not yet hit last season's heights

Related Articles
Talking Tactics
Possession game helping Man City's defence
Feature
Game Changers: Claude Makelele
Double award nomination for Morata
Adrian Clarke is analysing three teams' starts to the season, and what they are doing right and wrong.

Inconsistent Chelsea

En route to the 2016/17 Premier League title Chelsea displayed many fine qualities, but it was continuity that ultimately made them champions.

With no midweek European matches, the names on Antonio Conte’s teamsheet were almost as consistent as their excellent performances.

This season that flow has been lost.

Injuries, suspensions and a desire to rotate players for different competitions are all factors that have disrupted cohesion at Stamford Bridge.

As a by-product of this, the Blues have dropped a surprising number of points.

Incorporating the two systems used by Conte so far this season (3-4-2-1 and 3-5-1-1) below is a breakdown of who has started where, and how often, across the first seven Matchweeks.

It shows that only two outfield players, N'Golo Kante and Marcos Alonso, have appeared in all seven Premier League matches in the same position.

Chelsea's revolving side

Appearances Name  Pos
7 Courtois  GK (7)
Alonso  LWB (7)
Kante CM (7)
Azpilicueta RCB (5) RWB (2)
6 Morata  CF (6)
Rudiger LCB (4) RCB (2)
5 David Luiz  CB (4) DCM (1)
Moses RWB (5)
Fabregas  DCM (1) CM (3) AML (1)
Willian AMR (4) AMC (1)
4 Bakayoko  CM
Pedro AMR (1) AML (3)
3 Christensen CB
1 Hazard  AMC
Batshuayi CF
Boga  AML
(Positions: GK - goalkeeper; LWB/RWB - left/right wing-back; CB - centre-back; LCB/RCB - left/right centre-back; DCM/CM- (defensive) central midfielder; AML/AMC/AMR - attacking midfielder left/central/right; CF - centre-forward)

This high level of changeability would impact negatively on most teams, and it explains, at least in part, why Chelsea’s performances have been hit and miss.

Defensively I feel there have been too many changes.

Familiarity helped forge strong partnerships within Conte’s rearguard last term, but that has been sacrificed by frequent alterations in personnel and positioning.

In central midfield the configuration has also been tweaked from one match to the next, while in front, Willian, Pedro and Eden Hazard haven’t yet had the opportunity build up a head of steam.

Numbers are down

Chelsea’s fluency on the ball and ability to shut down the opposition has been adversely affected - and the statistics prove it.

Across the board Conte’s men have not been as powerful in attack, or as secure at the back as they were in the title-winning campaign.

And interestingly, perhaps due to their added UEFA Champions League commitments, Chelsea’s players haven’t run as far, or as hard this season either.

Therefore, fatigue may be playing a part in their erratic form.

Chelsea's change

Per match 2016/17 2017/18
Shots attempted (inc. blocks) 15.3  12.3
Shots faced (inc. blocks) 8.5 12
Shots on target faced 2.7 3.3
Km covered  112.8 110.7
Sprints 524.6 498
Conte’s conservatism

Tactically, my main observation is that Conte has been more cautious this term.

While his use of a 3-5-1-1 achieved fabulous results against Tottenham Hotspur and Atletico Madrid, he perhaps abandoned too much attacking flair at home to Manchester City, deploying Cesar Azpilicueta instead of Victor Moses at wing-back, and only Hazard in support of Alvaro Morata.

At home to Arsenal there was also a lack of attacking ambition and zest.

Based on performances so far, Chelsea look most comfortable and balanced in a 3-4-2-1 that mixes five defensive players with a quintet of offensive talents.

Conte’s approach is not in need of a dramatic rethink.

The key now is for the head coach to decide what his best XI is, and to give that side time to develop and breathe.

Tomorrow Clarke on what's new at Watford

Also in this series

Part 1: Possession game reinforcing Man City defence

Latest News

Awards
Choose your EA SPORTS Player of the Month
Vote for your Barclays Manager of the Month
Pick your Carling Goal of the Month for September


Talking Tactics
Lack of continuity checking Chelsea's progress
Possession game helping Man City's defence
Game Changers: Claude Makelele


Communities
Premier League offers support to Non-League Day
Non-league to Premier League XI
What is the Football Stadia Improvement Fund?


Fantasy Premier League
Fan insight can give managers extra edge
Magpies flying high in Fantasy fan rankings
GW8 Forwards #5: Gabriel Jesus

Feature
Game Changers: Claude Makelele
Game Changers: Nicolas Anelka
Game Changers: Eric Cantona


Talking Tactics
Possession game helping Man City's defence
Man Utd's tough task to keep pace with City
Assist machine De Bruyne leading the way


Communities
Rusthall on a level playing field with PL investment
New facilities giving Rusthall a sense of pride
Ampthill Town looking up thanks to new clubhouse


Awards
Vote for your Barclays Manager of the Month
Wagner named Barclays Manager of the Month
PL2 Player of the Month nominees announced
More News: Latest News
Latest Videos
 00:35  AD
Goal of the day: Gera leaves Man Utd in a spin
09/10/2017

 00:56  AD
On this day in 1994: Newcastle 1-1 Blackburn
09/10/2017

 01:28  AD
Iconic Moment: Man Utd comeback at Spurs
08/10/2017

 01:17  AD
Game Changers: Claude Makelele
08/10/2017
More Videos: Latest Videos
Lead PartnerEA SPORTS
Official BankBarclays
Official SnackCadbury
Official BeerCarling
Official BallNike
Official TimekeeperTAG Heuer
Official LicenseeSporting ID
Official LicenseeTopps
Premier League

Home
Football Fixtures
Football Results
Football Tables
Broadcast
Tickets
Clubs
Players
Managers
News
Social
Youth
Safeguarding
History
Referees
Fantasy

Home
My Team
Transfers
Leagues
Fixtures
Statistics
The Scout
Stats

Dashboard
Player Stats
Club Stats
All-time Stats
Head-to-Head
Awards
Video

Latest Videos
Communities

Latest
Programmes
PL Kicks Heroes
Strategy
Premier League Primary Stars
More

PL Live
Asia Trophy
Photos
Transfers
Partners
Nike Ball Hub
About
Publications
Fan Panel
Legal
Contact
Social

PL on Facebook
PL on Twitter
FPL on Twitter
PL Communities on Twitter
PL Youth on Twitter
PL on Instagram
PL Music on Spotify
© PREMIER LEAGUE 2017  Modern Slavery Statement  Terms & Conditions  Privacy Policy  Cookie Policy  Back To Top
Cookies on PremierLeague.com

The Premier League website employs cookies to improve your user experience. We have updated our cookie policy to reflect changes in the law on cookies and tracking technologies used on websites. If you continue on this website, you will be providing your consent to our use of cookies.

Find out moreI accept cookies from this site


mirror
NEWS
POLITICS
SPORT
FOOTBALL
CELEBS
TV & FILM
WEIRD NEWS
TECH
MONEY
MORE

Weather Image15°CPARTLY CLOUDY
OFFERS
BINGO
DATING
JOBS
BUYSELL
COMPETITIONS
HOROSCOPES
CARTOONS
CROSSWORDS


HomeSportFootballArsene Wenger
Arsene Wenger reveals why Barcelona shouldn't be allowed to join Premier League - and it’s good news for Celtic and Rangers
Barca will consider playing outside of Spain if Catalonia gains independence but Wenger doesn't foresee a move to England

SHARE
COMMENTS
BYLIAM PRENDERVILLE
08:20, 9 OCT 2017UPDATED08:44, 9 OCT 2017
SPORT

Gunners boss Arsene Wenger (Image: David Price/Arsenal FC via Getty Images)
SHARE
Get Arsenal FC updates directly to your inbox

Enter your email
+ Subscribe
Arsene Wenger insists Barcelona should not be allowed to join the Premier League.

Barca president Josep Maria Bartomeu has admitted the club will consider playing outside of Spain if Catalonia gains independence.


And his comments were backed up by La Liga chief Javier Tebas over the weekend, who conceded he could see the league going forward without the Nou Camp giants.

It has led to suggestions that Barca could play in the Premier League but Wenger is not having in it.

The Arsenal boss believes it would make much more sense for Celtic or Rangers to enter the English game.


Barcelona's players celebrate (Image: AFP)
Celtic and Rangers have been tipped to move (Image: REUTERS)
"I hope Barcelona continue playing in Spain. It would break the geographical unity and common sense," he told beIN Sports.

"Why don't they invite Celtic or Rangers to the Premier League who are already part of Great Britain, that would have more sense than inviting Barcelona.


"On the other hand if the politics between Spain and Catalonia don't go well it would signify support from England for Catalonia and that would not be welcomed internationally."


0:00

VIDEO LOADING
ARSENE WENGER REACTS TO ARSENAL'S 2-0 VICTORY OVER BRIGHTON
Last month, Football League clubs ruled out the chances of Celtic or Rangers entering a new structure.

All 72 clubs held talks on switching from three 24-team divisions to four leagues of 20 - allowing for Premier League B teams and potentially the Old Firm clubs.

POLL LOADING
Will Barcelona win La Liga this season?

6000+ VOTES SO FAR

Yes
No
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Arsenal FC Newsletter
mirrorfootball
Follow @mirrorfootball
Enter email
PROMOTED STORIES
This Ripped 8-Year-Old Was A Miniature Bodybuilder. But 16 Years On, He’s Totally Changed
Golf Trendster
Play this for 1 minute and see why everyone is addicted
Vikings: Free Online Game
If you're over 25 and own a computer, this game is a must-have!
Throne: Free Online Game
The Must-Have 'Spy Device' Every Driver in Tokyo Needs
TrackR Bravo
Farmer Rescues Injured Crocodile: 20 Years Later, This Happened
LifeDaily.com
20 Amazing Facts about Bananas You Won’t Believe
Healthy, Sporty & Beautiful
A Man Rescued This Feral Dog From the LA River. Its Response Was Startling
Skip and Giggle
9 Out Of 10 People Have Not Seen These Historical Photos
Richest Net Worths
Flight Prices You're Not Allowed to See
Save70.com
  by Taboola Sponsored Links
MORE ON
Arsene WengerPremier LeagueCeltic FCFC BarcelonaRangers FC

RECOMMENDED


Eden Hazard takes out half the Bosnian defence with dummy of the season during Belgium win

Manchester City to pay Sergi Roberto's release clause in January? Transfer news and gossip from Monday's papers

Liverpool owners slap £1BILLION price tag on club as leading financier begins takeover talks

Former Russia star sends message to England fans about hooliganism ahead of Russia World Cup 2018

England's World Cup departures board: Who's on the plane to Russia 2018, is waiting in the wings or has work to do?

'I felt like an animal in a zoo': Boxing legend Frank Bruno reveals what it was like on psychiatric ward
Arsenal suffer big injury blow as Shkodran Mustafi limps out of Germany's World Cup qualifier against Azerbaijan
Belgium's Kevin De Bruyne complains he hasn't played on a pitch so bad since he was 7 after thrilling win in Sarajevo
PROMOTED STORIES
If you're over 25 and own a computer, this game is a must-have!
Throne: Free Online Game
This Ripped 8-Year-Old Was A Miniature Bodybuilder. But 16 Years On, He’s Totally Changed
Golf Trendster
Play this for 1 minute and see why everyone is addicted
Vikings: Free Online Game
The Must-Have 'Spy Device' Every Driver in Tokyo Needs
TrackR Bravo
  by Taboola Sponsored Links

SPORT
ALL

RECOMMENDED
This is what top Premier League footballers eat at home - as revealed by chef who cooks for them
Wayne Rooney reveals the one trophy Sir Bobby Charlton has that he would swap ALL of his for
Liverpool star Mo Salah sends Egypt to Russia 2018 with brace including 95th-minute winner against Congo
Graeme Souness reveals he turned down chance to sign two of Manchester United's greatest players while Liverpool boss
What do Argentina need to do to qualify for the World Cup? The situation in South America as Lionel Messi faces missing out on Russia 2018
Holland boss Dick Advocaat's arrogant prediction comes back to bite him with World Cup exit imminent
Liverpool wonderkid Ben Woodburn warned to expect to stay on Wales bench because of Tom Lawrence's form
Zak Hardaker to miss out on England's World Cup squad after Castleford Grand Final axe
Sir Bobby Charlton at 80: Sir Alex Ferguson, David Beckham, Class of '92 and more pay tribute to the legend
The Jose Mourinho quotes which explain why he will be FURIOUS about Marouane Fellaini's Belgium injury

SPORT
ALL
TOP STORIES
SUICIDE
Girlfriend found hanged from jetty in Tenerife on romantic break with boyfriend after letting him go to dinner alone
CAR CRASHES
Bikini-clad teenager left with horror scars after holiday motorbike crash was told 'you'll never find a boyfriend'
BABIES
Dad called a 'sicko' for taking his son into baby-changing room - but one mum rushes to his defence
DATING
"He'll meet his karma": Outpouring of support for British woman who flew to Amsterdam to meet lover in cruel 'pull a pig' prank
FOOD
Masterchef contestant has amazing tip for how to peel a mango perfectly - and all you need is a wine glass
ADOPTION
Woman discovers long-lost brother she last saw 60 years ago is now one of the world's richest men
RICKY HATTON
Ricky Hatton 'treats himself' to full English breakfast - and boxing fans can't believe his luck
PIERS MORGAN
Piers Morgan 'goes to war' with 'sour-faced' Strictly judge for 'bullying' Charlotte Hawkins
LANCASHIRE POLICE
Police officer sold car crash victims’ data for £363,000 to live luxury life with cop wife
HOLIDAYS
Four day 'sex-fest' on offer at island resort with unlimited booze faces a backlash over promotional videos
CANCER
"Unborn baby saved my life:" Pregnancy led to mum being diagnosed with brain tumour she's had since childhood
GOOD MORNING BRITAIN
Gender-fluid guest who decides if they're a man or a woman when they wake up is branded 'confused' by Piers Morgan

NEWS
POLITICS
FOOTBALL
SPORT
CELEBS
TV & FILM
WEIRD NEWS
QUIZZES
TECH
MONEY
TRAVEL
FASHION
MUMS
MOTORING
FOLLOW US
BuySell
Find a job
Find a home
Find a new home
InYourArea
Psychic
Find a local business
About Us
Contact Us
Follow Us
Sell Your Story
How to Complain
Corrections & Clarifications
Google Survey
Privacy Statement
Cookie Policy
Terms and Conditions
Paper Subscription to the Daily Mirror
Paper Subscription to the Sunday Mirror
Irish Mirror
© 2017 MGN Limited
This website uses cookies. Using this website means you are okay with this but you can find out more and learn how to manage your cookie choices here.Close cookie policy overlay
